It's uh
there we go. Okay. Time 703. We'll call
the public hearing to order.
And uh purpose of the public hearing
tonight is the Andover Planning and
Zoning Commission proposal to modify
existing regulations concerning
setbacks, modify certain requirements
for mining, removing minimum dwelling
size requirements, add regulations
concerning agriculturally and
non-aggriculturally related public and
private events on farm parcels.
So with that, um,
John, could you call up the, uh, current
version of the agro tourism, right?
That's where I want to start. And, uh,
Okay. So,
>> how's that?
>> That uh that looks good.
>> And
for the benefit of the public that are
with us here tonight, this is
essentially the same
regulation is that we were working with
Ryan on.
He chose to withdraw his application.
He Oh, we lost uh we lost it there,
John.
>> Sorry. I just wanted to I just wanted to
save it locally so I could make some
changes to it while we on the fly. Okay.
>> Okay. Very good. So, um
it hasn't changed
essentially at all since we got done
with our deliberations on on the
regulation. But uh
for the benefit of everybody in
attendance tonight, I will go through,
you know, some of the highlights that I
saw on here. And uh the purpose of the
regulation is to uh to support our
farmers, let them uh do some things to
alleviate financial hardships that small
farms experience
while having an positive impact on the
community surrounding them.
Next thing down is the definition of an
agricultural
accessory use which relates to the
agricultural like uh you know uh horse
shows,
wine lectures,
uh stuff like that that's directly
related to farming.
And one of the things that we changed
along the way here is we were not going
to regulate those things at all, but we
added uh we added the requirement to
have a site plan review required for
agricultural etc uses. So even even in
those farm related cases uh the
applicant needs to bring a site plan to
the commission and we go through it make
sure it complies with the regulations
here.
Next down is the one that was probably
got most interest, the non-aggricultural
accessory uses. And these uh events are
not limited to, but outdoor recreation
events, weddings, private parties,
banquetss, that sort of thing. And a
special permit is required for all
non-aggricultural
accessory uses. So even after we get
done with these regulations and if they
are ultimately approved,
what what that means is that anybody who
wants to do any of these things that are
in in this regulation has to come with a
plan to the uh planning and zoning
commission. If it's agriculturally
related, we don't need to hold a public
hearing on it. we just bounce it against
our regulations.
But if it is a non-aggricultural event,
we would be required to have a uh public
hearing with that.
Um, if you want to scroll down to 422
then
and and
for the benefit of those uh of the
public tonight, if you have any benefit
of everybody here tonight, if you have
questions on it as I'm going through,
uh, go ahead and uh, you know, speak up
and we'll I'll do my best to address
those. The U,
under 4.22,
you know, section B, we changed a little
bit. We were looking for
non-aggricultural related uses that
would be at least 10 acres and for an
agricultural related accessory use it
would be 3 acres. So we put a minimum
size there on that which was a little
different than what we were talking to
before.
you know, the commission will decide,
you know, we'll work uh to specify the
maximum number of attendees based on the
application. We've got uh you know, we
refer back to our regulations in section
12 for parking.
Uh scrolling down to the top of the next
page here, John
proposed use shall not adversely affect
the enjoyment, usefulness, and value of
the premises in the neighborhood.
Um,
paragraph G there, you know, uh,
something we talked about a lot. The
hours of operation for uses or events
that do not include amplified sound
shall not begin before 9:00 or finish
after 10:00 p.m. at night. And that's
that's the same day, same hours, seven
days a week of that.
When we got down to the amplified sound,
we uh we came up with
uh amplified sound be allowed on Fridays
between 12 noon and 900 p.m. Saturday
between 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. or
Sunday between 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
in between 12:00 noon and 8:00 p.m. on
all other days. So essentially Friday
and Saturday you can go till 9. Rest of
the nights it's uh 8. Are we going to
deliberate this?
>> What's that?
>> Are we going to deliberate this?
>> Yes. Again.
>> Yes. On the regular meeting,
>> right?
>> Doesn't that have to be a long
deliberation?
>> But
>> we are going to
>> But we do we are required to
>> some changes.
>> Well, you've got some changes you're
thinking of.
>> Yeah. I I was just thinking that Sunday
shouldn't be the starting time at 10:00
a.m., should it?
So
>> amplified sound. So what uh
what it has in here if you read on all
other days you 12 to 8 Sunday between 10
and 8 p.m. and it says subject to
modification by the planning and zoning
commission to require fewer hours. So,
if there was a reason and in the uh the
item we talked about at the last meeting
was if if the uh event was near a church
and the church service was till 11:00,
we could specify in the special permit
that uh you know, we don't want you to
start till 11:00 on Sunday or whatever.
So, we've got that latitude to take care
of that.
Um I left it in there uh you know for
the uh sound attenuation to be
consistent with the state limits at the
property line and it's up to the
applicant to uh tell us how he's going
to maintain that uh those limits and
that sort of thing
under site plans. Uh you know the site
plan we uh we talked about in the
narrative including setup and takedown
so we're not out there making a lot of
noise. at three in the morning breaking
down an event and that sort of thing.
Um
and then just again uh hit the uh on the
last paragraph here with the
agricultural accessory uses.
You know the special permit shall be
issued for a trial period up to a year
to ensure coverage of the summer season
during which ty activity can be reported
to the commission may be observed.
During the trial period, the license can
be revoked following notice to the
permit holder and a hearing in which the
permit holder will have the opportunity
to appear and be heard as to why the
permit should not be removed. After the
trial period, approval may be made
permanent subject to an annual review,
inspection, and authorization,
and there will be a $100
annual renewal fee.
So that was
that is where I think we stand on the
agro tourism regulation.
Um
if uh
any any commission members have any
comments on the regulation as it
currently stands?
Okay. Very good. Uh any members of the
public?
Baron, you have any comments that you
would like to provide the commission?
>> Sure. Um I wish to thank the members of
the
>> Yep. And we're having a hard time
hearing Baron.
>> Um
can you hear me now?
>> Better. Yep. Um I wish to thank the
members of the committee for their
recommendations.
Um
I know this is an is an evolving process
and there are a lot of components to it.
I think what really helped
in my situation was a type of mutual
respect
that I had developed with the the
neighbor and um sort of an understanding
of what's you know what's really loud,
what's what's bothersome versus what's
acceptable
um things things of that nature. So um
it's kind of a complex
I know it's very difficult to cover in a
in in writing but um
it has been you know u there's other
businesses have been worked out where
you know there's multiple facets to
these type of businesses I understand
that
whether I have a question Um, I really
can't think of one right now,
but that's basically what I just wanted
to put across.
>> Okay. Thank you, Baron. And Katherine
Hutchinson, did you have any comments on
the proposed regulation?
>> Uh, yes, I do. Excuse me.
Many of these are going to be a repeat
of what um I have said at the public
hearings that were held on the um former
application.
Uh but
bear with me please. The other thing too
is with regard to and I'm going to start
with the last thing first because I um
it's something that I mentioned before
and that has to do with the
excuse me the hours of the amplified
sound um on Sunday.
I note that Monday through Friday, it
doesn't start until noon until noon.
And was there a reason why it was
extended on Sunday back to 10:00 a.m.?
Because what I would like to see is
Sunday be the same as Monday through
Friday with Saturday the only exception
of starting at 10.
>> Okay. I understand the comment and uh
the only reason
that we were
there was a difference was the majority
of people and I don't even know that
it's true that it's majority anymore.
Um, I was kind of,
you know, I I looked I looked at it like
the various fairs in the area where
during the weekdays, if they're even
having the fair, it normally starts
later in the afternoon because most
people are working during the day and
they don't uh they don't have the
opportunity to get over to the event
till maybe 4:00 where on Saturday and
Sunday they do have a little bit of
more latitude to arrive earlier and so
we were starting the event earlier. We
we had a different ending time on Sunday
because we think uh you know most of the
people are getting ready to go to work
following week and and we didn't want we
wanted that to be more like the the
Monday through Thursday wrapping up at
8:00 because people are going to bed so
they can get up to go to work that sort
of thing where we normally think a
little bit later on Friday and Saturday.
So that's that's the uh
that's the rationale if you will. Uh
we've heard your comment. We can we can
talk about that uh in deliberation. And
again we mentioned that if there were
the we wrote in on both uh you know the
hours for the event or the hours for
sound that the commission can modify
that to require fewer hours. We cannot
though make it go any later than the
hours specified in the instruction.
>> So to start an event later than 10:00
a.m. on on Sunday, we can do that
>> with the with the instruction written
the way it is.
again um with regard to the start time
at Sunday if I can just make additional
comment and I understand what you're
saying but an applicant who is filing an
application
and perhaps tailoring his or her uh
business or what they're proposing to do
would
use the 10:00 figure. Whereas if it were
the 12:00
being a Sunday when it's supposedly a
day of s relative quiet, um I would
still
suggest that consideration be giving to
the same starting time of Monday through
Fridays and that is at 12.
or as I say as I started with last
things first because I did comment
>> but with regard to uh in general with
regard to my comments and again bear
with me all please because you've heard
this before when of the application
Ryan's application but this is a new
application and a new public hearing so
I'm going to go ahead and um with your
indulgence
repeat uh repeat some of the comments
that I've made in the past
with regard to a public act 490.
Um, under the statute, the term farmland
means any track or tracks of land,
including woodland and wasteland and any
underwater farmlands used for
agriculture constituting a farm unit. It
is the assessor that determines what's a
farm under public act 490.
Unfortunately, the commission doesn't
have the authority to determine what's a
farm. It's it's entirely up to the
assessor's um determination.
And the status of a public act 490 farm
unit also is subject to um change. In
other words, farms can go drop off and
new ones can come on all the time. At
this particular point, uh, and again
repeating what I have said before that,
uh, the regulations apply to any and all
property in town that consists of three
or more acres with regard to an
agriculture accessory use and 10 or more
for a non-aggricultural accessory use.
And again, this would permit commercial
activity pretty much anywhere in town,
um, particularly under the
non-aggriculture accessory use section.
The statutes require the assessor to
file an annual report with the state
forester. At this point, according to
the assessor's report to the state
forest that is currently in effect, at
this point, there are 37 properties in
town designated as farm under 490.
20 of them have 10 acres or more and
thus would fall in the non-aggricultural
accessory use category.
33 of them have 3 acres or more that
fall within the agricultural accessory
use.
One of the farm properties in town of
particular concern is the designation
already as a a farm uh is the Roberts
the Percy Cooks property which as you
all know is very close to the town hall
the community center and especially the
school.
There are also a number of the um
already designated as farm under port
public act 490 along Hein Road. Um that
property is basically
located in the AARD zone on the easterly
side of Hebrin Road starting about Lake
Road and running to the Hein Town line
and that abuts the Andover Lake District
and really comes quite close to the
Andover Lake District.
Excuse me. And there are also a number
of properties around town that
are more than the 10 acres. And that's
why I'm particularly concerned with the
10 acres uh where there's basically a
lot of activity that is
non-aggricultural that would be
permitted under the proposed
regulations.
And they're in the Lake District. um if
they're not already designated, they're
um in the area of the um library and the
church close to the Harp River Homes. uh
again that subject to that and even
expanding on that any place in town and
I again I'm particularly concerned about
the um non-aggricultural use
any property in town that is 10 acres or
more under the present regulation would
the proposed regulation I should say
would be subject to approval as a public
debt 490 farm and therefore any parcel
that's 10 acres or more would be subject
to what the proposed regulations permit
be done and that is a lot of town area
and town and I would submit covers
pretty much the whole town. So I would
again ask the commission to keep excuse
me keep that in consideration.
um it's going it has the potential to
affect basically the whole town and the
nature of the whole town if put to its
maximum use. I am very pleased with a
number of the changes that the
commission did make with regard to the
reduction in the hours um that these
operations can go on and including um in
your designation of the
year
uh review including the agricultural as
well as the non-aggricultural
um
provisions. So I I appreciate that and
again wanted to sum it up, make the
commission aware that adopting this it
could have significant impact all over
town. And uh
really that's about what I a brief
summary of what I've said in the past
but to get the idea across and again um
getting back to my last comment with
regard to the hours on Sunday for the um
starting time at Sunday. I've already
put that on the record. Thank you.
>> Okay. Thank you, Katherine. And uh
because I did ponder that issue
a while after you raised it during the
last public hearing.
My thinking was
that we are talking so if we have an
agricultural accessory use or
non-aggricultural accessory use
that would tell me you know the
intention here is to have
provide assistance to somebody who's
primary
business is farming so that this other
thing is accessory to the farming, if
you will.
And that's going to be something that
the applicant has to come in and
demonstrate to the commission about just
because somebody's got
for tax purposes a bunch of trees that
are listed as a farm.
If that's not his primary business,
I don't think that you can say that the
event, whether it's agricultural, not
agricultural, would be accessory to
something that's almost a non-existent
business. We're we're trying to do this
where somebody makes a good percentage
of their livelihood off of farming. At
least that's my intent. and and I
thought that having it listed as an
accessory use uh helped us enforce that.
So that was my thinking. We can
deliberate that some more when we get to
it. I got your comment, but uh why it
was fresh in everybody's mind. I just
wanted to to take a couple minutes and
go through how I was thinking about that
comment when you made it before.
>> All right. Thank you.
Um,
any other comments on any of the
commission members here tonight or John
or Wayne?
Uh, Jed, I would just make one. It's
John Gusowski. Uh, for the record, uh,
just one real minor uh, correction on
the on item L, the very last line. I
think it's just cleaner to say there'll
be $100
annual fee. you put $100 in in PNS, but
I just thought you want to add the the
board dollar also, but that's that's a
minor thing.
>> Very good. I agree. Okay. Um,
so if there are no more comments on the
agro tourism section, I'm going to put
that aside. And we've got a bunch of
little minor changes that uh I want to
go through. And uh
Baron, you you're certainly welcome to
stay. It's going to be a while before we
get uh to the deliberation,
but you've heard you've heard the
comments. You've you've heard the
discussion. I think you probably got
what you want out of attending tonight.
>> Thank you. I appreciate it.
>> Okay.
>> Uh so Jed, do you want bring up you have
the you sent me two documents. One is
summary of proposed changes and the
other is zoning regulations pending
2025.
>> Just bring up the uh the zoning
regulations document. I'll I'll go
through the uh
>> the summary changes as we walk our way
through that.
>> And we'll start off with section 4.9.2.
4.9.2.
>> Okay. Yeah. And if you can blow that up
just a little bit more.
Okay. So
here,
you know, and this goes back to uh,
you know, a lot that we were discussing
over on Hendy Road and uh,
and so the uh, the applicant wanted to
create a lot and it didn't have any
frontage on the road and it wasn't
really a rear lot wasn't really
well it just didn't have any frontage.
Yeah, you can have all the width you
want on a rear lot, but it's got to have
something along the road. And so we
wanted to change
width to frontage to uh to be consistent
with, you know, we've got to have a
given amount of frontage on the road to
to safely access the rear lot. That's
what the requirement is. And then
there's other definitions on the rear
lot, but width was not appropriate. Uh,
frontage was and that's why we changed
it there. And you also got to add a T
less than he required long rest less
than the required L.
>> So are you at 493?
>> No, too.
>> 492 a lot.
>> Oh, right there.
>> Oh, okay. Put that in there. That'd be
good. Yeah. Let me I need to check
changes. Okay. Yeah.
>> Okay. Thanks, Scott. And then we go down
to 493.
And again, we're talking about
we just changed width to frontage there.
And so that was uh that was the change.
And uh
that's all there is to that. So any any
questions on those particular two
changes?
Okay, why don't you scroll down, John,
to
7?
>> Yep.
Where where are we here?
>> Still four. Okay, I'm still in four.
Sorry.
>> They go after you get out of four.
>> Seven.
>> There. There we are. Y. So,
I've uh you know, we've had a couple of
people
apply for sheds and they look like
garages. And
and the question in my mind that I
wrestled with with Jim Haly uh a bunch
is in this day and age, you know, should
we have
should you in the Lake District be able
to have more than a twocar garage?
And it's in my mind, you know, we do
have several houses around the lake that
have threecar garages in them already.
Um, we also I also wrestled with this
again when we were talking about uh the
the fella up on
Bizola Road with his huge twocar garage
in the Lake District. It's, you know,
it's really more than a two-car garage.
It only had two doors on it, but I
thought, you know, if you got a big lot,
you're in the Lake District, you want a
threecar garage, why shouldn't you be
able to have a threecar garage? And so I
put it in here that that was permittable
with a special permit.
So, you know, not everybody gets to have
a threecar garage, but if you got a
reasonable size lot, I think that's okay
because people have ended up with it
already. somehow um
we're doing that. So, I thought that
made sense. Any any comments from
anybody in attendance on that particular
proposed change?
You want to specify a lot size?
I did not. You know, it's going to be
dependent upon the shape of the house
where it sits. We still got the
setbacks. you know, if you got these
little locks and and most of the little
locks, they come in asking for a
variance on the uh setbacks already. And
so, I'm thinking that if we just comp if
we hold the compliance with the
setbacks, we'd probably be okay there in
my mind.
Any other questions on that?
Okay, I'm going to move down to section
8.1.
Okay, there's
so this uh you know this was uh
really this is an offshoot of
eliminating the the requirement for uh
you know car lots and had to go to CBA.
You know it it doesn't have to by state
law anymore. uh it does by uh planning
and zoning, but uh his Wayne was was
reviewing that we changed gasoline to
motor vehicle fuel in case somebody was
just selling diesel fuel or something.
So, it made it more inclusive. That
might even
might even include a charging station. I
don't know. But um we'll cross that
bridge when we get there. But it's more
than just gasoline. So that's the only
uh
reason for that change there.
>> You could add commercial
>> vehicle charging station
>> to those words.
>> I want to get I don't want to make the
deliberation any trickier than it is. I
want to get
>> commercial vehicle charging station
something.
>> But
but it may prompt another change and I'm
a continuous process improvement kind of
guy.
>> Okay.
But any other comments on that
particular change from gasoline to motor
vehicle fuel.
Okay. Why don't you scroll down to 9.1?
Okay. And so so again what we did here
is we changed auto to motor vehicles on
the first three things and then we added
motor vehicle storage facility
and uh that was included in the ZBA
article that we got rid of because no
longer required by state and just to
make sure that we covered it we put it
uh you know is allowable by special
permit in the industrial zone here.
So that's uh that's that one. Any any
comments on that particular
change?
And then we reumbered the rest of them.
So that's what the reumbering is all
about there.
Okay. Hear and none. Scroll down to
10.7.2.
Okay. Yeah. So
again, uh we had an application where
somebody wanted to build a
new construction home in a flood plane.
And uh it it says that you know
someplace else it talks about prohibited
things and and it was
uh new construction residential was
prohibited in the flood plane but the
attorneys came back and said well how
can that be true when it says here
residential construction new
construction you're telling us right
there that's allowed. So, uh, in order
to preclude that from happening again,
because in my mind, uh, we shouldn't be
building houses in the flood plane, we
crossed out new construction there.
So, if you've already got a house in the
flood plane, you can substantially
improve it. You just can't build new
home there in the flood plane.
Looking down there, paragraph two
talks about manufactured homes. And if
we're not going to allow new
construction in a flood plane, we didn't
need to talk about building manufactured
homes in the flood plane. So, I just got
rid of that entire paragraph
and renumbered somewhere down there.
And that's so that's the essence of that
particular change.
Any uh
any comments from anybody on those? Yay.
Yay. It took a while, Scott. I promise
you we get there.
I guess it's not done yet, but we're
getting close.
Okay. Um,
next up is section 11.1.
Oh, all right. Sorry. I I thought we
were done with that. Just a second.
>> Oh, no. We got Yeah, we had
we got a couple more to go.
11.1.
>> Yeah.
>> Are we on? Is it the table?
>> No, it's 11.2. We're right above it.
>> All right,
there we go.
>> Yeah. And so,
um, the state has done away with minimum
floor requirements
for building a house. And so, we deleted
those.
Now, you can go down to the table.
Okay. So,
so here up on the cop where it had
minimum requirement for lots where it
specified width. We changed that to
frontage. I think at one point in time
we were using those two terms
interchangeably.
Um now we're not. And so frontage is the
correct word there. Over on the right
hand side all those blue for floor areas
that whole column is eliminated because
you know we're not allowed to specify
minimum floor area size anymore.
going down back. Uh,
under the open space lot
on the front yard feed,
the current requirement by our
regulation is 20 ft. Oops. You have to
go.
>> Sorry. Yeah. No, I accident I think I I
clicked a a link inadvertently. Here,
hang on.
>> Okay. Yep.
>> All right. Here we are.
>> So, highlight this.
>> Yep. And I can't read what that says,
but in my notes here it says 30.
>> 30.
>> Yeah, that's front front yard is being
proposed to change from 20 to 30.
>> And that's because
you measure the front yard setback from
the center line of the road. And so if
we had a 20ft setback with a 10-ft wide,
you 20 foot wide road, which I think our
roads are probably a little bit bigger.
I think they're more like 22. But you
would be building a house essentially
right next to the road. I don't think
that's what we wanted. I think when we
came up with some of the numbers in
here, we forgot that we measured from
the center line. So I changed that to
30.
Actually, you know, when we get to
deliberation, I was wrestling with is 30
and up. Should it be bigger than that?
But 30 is what I went with just to add
the center line of the road there. Can
can I ask just a
>> Yeah, it's kind of a silly question. Why
is it different than any other lot?
>> Don't know the answer to that. And and
for purposes of this chart, I wasn't
going to go there. I figured we well, we
wanted to give somebody an allowance to
make it easier to build an open space
subdivision lot. So, an open space lot,
we we made it so that you didn't have to
have quite so much square footage,
right, setbacks and all that because
we're we're counting on getting some
open space as part of the deal. Um, and
so that made sense to me.
The next one that I changed was
Andover Lake open space.
Andover Lake Seasonal.
Yeah. Okay. Well, Andover Lake seasonal.
I deleted it.
>> And again, I don't think anybody, you
know, we used to have something in here
that a seasonal house only had to be 500
square ft. I saw that reading through
some of this stuff. Nobody's going to
build a seasonal house on Andover Lake
anymore. There might be a couple of them
that are still there, but I think it is
really all tribal knowledge that uh that
you know that they're seasonal houses.
Um
I think they all in my mind qualify as a
yearround house if you look at what's
the difference between the two. But uh
what I was trying to avoid
also in getting rid of the seasonal
requirement is when a person wants to
change his seasonal house to a year
round house,
you have to come in with a special
permit to do that.
And when somebody had a variance
approved for a seasonal house and now he
wanted to build a year round house which
required more
a bigger lot.
He I didn't see how he could get through
the hardship thing by doing that. you
know, if he if he already had a variance
for a smaller lot, now we we've got the
requirement for a bigger lot. Um, how is
he going to get authorized to do that? I
think it's in the town's interest to
have these lots upgraded to year round
houses. I think that's something that we
want. And so, I didn't want to put the
applicant in a position where there was
he want he had to prove a hardship and
there was no way to to prove it. And so
we just got rid of the seasonal because
every house out there now is essentially
a year round house.
And I did not get rid of the
requirements out of section 7 for
upgrading it using a special permit
because I wasn't sure what the
unintended consequences were. And so
this way if somebody thinks they have a
seasonal house, they want to upgrade it,
we get to take a look at it just to make
sure it makes sense. And uh I was okay
with that. I left that in. But I wanted
uh to not get uh wrapped around all
these things because we've got some
year- round houses that are on lots
smaller than the lots that the seasonal
houses are currently on. And so that
didn't make any sense to me either. So
that's why I changed that one.
>> Jed, you might want to look at 7.0.2.
>> Okay. Um, yeah, we'll let John scroll
back. There's 7.0.2.
>> I should have brought this up earlier. I
should have caught it.
>> Yeah,
>> it's an as of right use.
>> So, you to be consistent, you just get
rid of that entirely, right?
I'm thinking about it for just a second,
but uh
I do think that uh that's a good call.
We we can just go ahead and and scratch
that paragraph
and uh and reumber the rest.
>> In what way?
>> Remember the rest?
>> Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> Good job. Uh, good job, John. See, when
I go to I try to uh
>> hold on. I'm just gonna I just want to
save this as as the right version so I I
can track it down.
>> When I when I try to format this thing,
a lot of times it's like a jack in a box
and things pop out and I spend an hour
trying to get it back to where I was. So
watching you just do that, I am more
convinced than ever that you should be
the custodian of the master
because I would I would have spent an
hour trying to do what you just did.
Okay, very good.
Um,
back to the chart.
So, scrolling down to the business
adjacent to the ARD
and we used to have a 10-foot
front yard setback.
And as we discussed at the last meeting,
if you're if you're adjacent to the ARD,
why would we want to allow you to have a
smaller setback? And again, with a 10-ft
setback and a 10-ft road width, uh, you
would be building right out to the road,
which we didn't want. So, I changed it
to 45 because I wanted it to be the same
as all the other businesses. You
shouldn't have to have less setback when
you're by a residential neighborhood.
So that's what I did there.
>> What's that 751 jet on in
>> 751? That that is a typo. And
um I don't see where it is.
>> It's supposed to be super Yeah.
Superscript
>> and refer to the footnote. A footnote
down below.
>> Okay. Okay. When I printed it off, I I
missed a little bit at the edge there.
So, I uh but I I know the note you're
referring to, Scott. And it's supposed
to be
seven five
>> with a uh superscript up there. One
>> I'm sorry. Where are you?
>> Oh, this one right here.
>> Where? Yeah, that's that one. That That
one should be a superscript.
>> All right. Uh wait, I can format the
text. Where is it?
I
>> think you go to Fton.
>> All right. I'll I'll figure that out.
>> Okay. And the one above it should be a
superscript.
>> Yeah.
But that's
one's being deleted anyway, but Yeah.
Okay. That's right. Okay. I'll I'll flag
it.
Um,
so I think that's all on on the chart
for section 11.2. Anybody uh anybody got
any comments on the changes we just
talked about?
Okay. Scroll down to uh section 16.
16 sand and gravel. Okay. 161 1611.
>> Yep. So
here the intention was is
somebody could be
having a mountain on their property and
wanted to do a mining thing and they
said well I'm just removing surplus
material so I got level I have to put my
house on it. We wanted to eliminate the
ability of somebody to do that. So we we
said uh
you know removal of material necessary
construction of structures yes for which
building permits been issued and
approved provided such removal does not
exceed 1,000 yards of material.
And so if you if you're going to be
taking more than 1,000 yards in that
1,000 yards, it was kind of arbitrary.
But I think we arbitraried on the larger
side rather than the smaller side. So I
think if with that nobody's going to
accuse us of being too restrict on
removing dirt for digging a basement or
something with 550 loads. And Ched, this
is this is probably a minor formatting
thing and I'll I'll defer to the
construction folks in the room. Should
we refer to those as cubic yards rather
than just yards?
>> Yeah, probably
>> cubic yards is more technically correct.
Yeah, that'd be good.
>> I don't know if the word yard is
anywhere else in there, but
>> no, it is. Yeah. And then they could
still get a special permit if it does
exceed that.
>> Right. Good. 62. Okay.
>> But, you know, just as a rule of thumb,
you know, if you're going to be taking a
mountain off your property, we need to
have a excavation special permit.
>> Well, special permit. Got it.
>> That's a lot. That's
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Several towns have run encountered
problems with people buying
>> land that had gravel on it.
>> Years later, they're still removing.
>> Yeah. 16.1.2
is essentially the same kind of thing,
but with agriculture instead of building
the
a building. Then uh then we reumbered
the the rest of the things there. Any
questions or comments on that particular
change?
>> And there again, I just picked a
thousand yards up. I got you.
>> Yep.
>> If anybody, you know, the assembled,
>> it's going to at least put a limit on
what somebody can haul out of their
work. We can go in and cite them as
being contrary to our
>> I wonder how many loads they took out of
the gravel out there.
We don't know.
>> I've got nobody knows.
>> Well, what we do know is how many loads
of dirt I don't have a number they put
back in there. And I was surprised at
that just to raise the uh the level up,
you know, the four inches. Oh, god. He
had to put at least 40 loads in there.
>> Yeah. Yeah. 40 40 to 60 loads. It was an
awful lot. We came back with more. Um,
okay. Let's scroll down to section 19.
1922. Is that where you are?
>> It's
>> Oh, no.
>> You tell me, Jed.
>> Okay. Well, so wherever you see blue.
Okay. So, you know, and this is just
kind of a formatting thing. Requirements
of section 19.2.6.
Yeah, I got rid of that because there
was no section 19.2.6.
Okay.
>> And so
it didn't make any sense to uh to
reference that. It was just addition to
these requirements
period. These or this
>> uh it's this requirement.
>> Okay, that's fine. Yeah, because that
Okay, whatever. It says this here. Yeah.
Um,
so when we look at 19.2,
so scroll up a little bit so we can see
the top of it there. I don't know how we
did this.
And uh,
really didn't care.
But when we were talking about BB in his
class A kennel or his kennel out on
route six,
we determined that he was really after a
type A kennel based on the number of
dogs who was going to be out there.
And
now I'm starting to understand. It says
19.2.1 special requirements. I thought
it said special permit requirements
there. Um,
and uh, we'll take a look to make sure I
don't need to add that there. That's the
same as arrest. But what I remember was
Attorney Grants
when we were struggling to get that
going without a public hearing said,
"Well, it's not a special permit. It
says permitted in all uses except flood
broom zone. So you can go ahead and do
what you want to do. I wanted to make
sure that
every kennel
got a special permit because I think
that's a big deal. And so I put the
commission will set a public hearing
date in accordance with the provisions
of Connecticut general statutes as
amended. So we would have that be a
special permit. But um somebody keep me
honest. we might need to when I look at
the class B kennel I make I want to make
the wording the same. So scroll down to
we get to the type B counts.
Oops. Let's talk action of the
commission here.
So the commission will take action on
such application in accordance with
section 23.3
Charlie 3 which is the uh the special
permit section of our regulations.
And again that to to force you back to
having a special per and so it is
special permitted uses John. So if you
go back to 19
2.1
>> 2.1 right here
>> you could put special permit
requirements in there because that's
what I was reading even though that word
is not there.
Okay, that's good. So that makes it even
better with Yes. type A kennels will now
require a special permitting and it goes
from there. Okay, very good. Hang on. So
if you go to 19.3
um
I'm wondering if
Okay, 19.2 special permitted uses
>> protect beacons.
>> No, 19.2
>> 19.2 view. If you scroll up to 19.2,
which starts that section, special
permitted uses.
>> Yep.
>> The following uses are permitted subject
to commission approval.
That kind of covers it, doesn't it?
>> As far as needing to special permit.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. In my mind, it does. And adding
the the word
Oh, I see what you're saying in there. I
don't know. because it's it's sub it's
you know this is this is underneath 9.2
too. So everything here would apply. So
you could just you could just call it
requirements.
>> I mean for consistency I my suggestion
is you use the same words that you use
in 19.3
for the type B kettle.
Right. So it's right now one says
special one says special permit. You
could Yeah, you could change, you know,
both or neither.
>> Oh, that's uh that's a little bit beyond
uh my ability to do on the fly here
because, you know, we would be
reumbering a bunch of stuff. Uh
>> no, I don't I I No, I don't think so. I
think you Wayne, you're just talking
about the the the phrasing, right?
>> Right. Yeah.
Yeah. Just you just copy you just change
type B cattle to type A and
use the exact same words.
>> Okay. Yeah, I see what you're saying.
>> And then it's it's consistent
throughout the whole kennel section that
way.
Well, so there are different
requirements like Right. So the the
special requirements for type B kennels
has A through E,
right? Uh
>> there are different requirements and
that's why they're different sections. I
didn't want it to be a special permit.
>> I'm not saying to use any of the a any
of the
A through D stuff. I'm just saying use
the word special permitted uses
and that
>> C section 20 and the line after that
that's it.
So right this minute 19.2 2 in our
regulation says special permitted uses
type A kettles which is the exact same
words as 19.3 right
doesn't say C-section
>> it does say they both say C-section 23 I
believe
>> oh yeah okay you're right
>> okay then the filing uses are permitted
subject to commission approval I you can
leave it like that that I I I withdraw
my
>> well the the sentence
that's different is the one right under
19.2 where it says here the following
uses are permitted subject to commission
approval.
>> The other ones say following uses are
permitted subject to commission approval
following a public hearing
with the Connecticut general statutes.
And I put that in a different spot there
for type A and I think it's it's
technically correct. It might be worded
a little bit funnier, but to get the
point across that you're going to have
to have a special permit of public
hearing.
>> So, just for consistency, I'll add the
longer phrase for both.
>> Yep, that's fine.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Scroll down to see if there's
anything else there. Okay. And then so
and that gets you that refers you into
the special permit uh section
rather than you know we tried to spell
out a bunch of the requirements for
special permit didn't just go to section
23.3
C.
>> Okay.
>> I'm sorry. Okay. So, where we going? Oh,
23.
>> Are we
>> are we going down there or are you just
you're just talking about the reference?
>> That is that is all the changes that I
made to section 19 were just in the
class A.
>> Now, I may have added
section 23.3 Charlie 3 in there in a
couple of different places just because
19.2 too.
Maybe he was trying to reference it back
to the things under the class A can, but
you know, we just need to reference the
uh the thing uh in the special permit
section, and that's what that does. So,
it's it was kind of a nonchange
formatting thing in my mind.
>> Just a quick question. The type the type
A kennel, is that like the smallest?
>> Yep.
>> So, do we really require a public
hearing for that or
>> We do. So, if somebody were to put a
kennel next to your house, I think you
want to have a say about it.
>> Thank you for clarification.
>> Yeah. And that that's really, you know,
I didn't think it was right to not have
a public hearing. If you're talking
about having a kennel,
>> Jed, can I park dogs?
Can I just raise like a a short a quick
procedural
matter?
>> And so this is you know so this section
here where where we say for any of the
above uses uh shall be submitted for
application procedure for any of the
above uses. So I it should be like
applications for the above uses. Um
>> yeah,
>> but uh 10 days prior to the meeting to
meeting of commission.
>> Um
just is that ju I guess I'm wondering
what the what the the the purpose behind
that is because it runs a foul um or
it's a little bit more rigid than than
the general statutes would provide.
um um
>> because the general statutes provide
that you can submit an application up to
24 hours prior to the next meeting
>> and it will be received. Obviously, you
you wouldn't be able to decide on it and
consider it or really have much time to
look at it, but the statutes allow you
to get it received.
>> You're right. And uh so again I uh the
only thing I was trying to change on
this was to make sure we got a special
permit. The uh I think that so if we had
a special permit the permit would come
in. It could be coming in the day before
the the thing and all we would do is say
Wayne is the application complete? He
would say yes. We would say okay we're
going to schedule a public hearing.
I think when you did not have to do a
public hearing sometimes, you know, if
it's just the commission review, you can
do that
um on that day.
I don't know. I think we were just
trying to get it. So, it always annoyed
me when I walked into a planning and
zoning meeting and here comes the
application that we're supposed to uh
act on that night. And that was the
first time I'd had a chance to take a
look at it. So when I saw 10 days, I
started cheering. I I didn't uh but uh
if if that's
>> it's just I you know I think and and
again this is something you can ask for
it and you can expect it but if if you
know someone submits it seven days prior
or even three days prior
it really can't affect your
actions necessarily, you know.
Um
those words those exact same words
appear in in the type B and type C
panel.
>> Yeah.
>> Go ahead and leave it there the way it
is.
>> Yeah, that's fine. Yeah, I'm just Okay,
>> just just note that. Yeah, it it
shouldn't affect commission action, but
it's you know it's fine. It's fine to
ask for it.
>> A type A, type B, type C. Is that
something that's commonly understood
that we don't have to define it or is it
defined? That might be in our
definitions. I can't remember but it is
>> definitions are are up in that same 19
section
19.0 I think class A kennel is less than
six you know then the class B is less
than 10 C is more than 10 that's from my
memory
>> basically 10 10 to 20 yeah up to 10 10
to 20 over 20
>> right thank you
>> okay all good discussion uh any other
questions on or comments on the section
19 change
okay let's scroll Scroll down to section
22.
So this is uh
this deletes the items uh that are no
longer required by state to go to the
CBA.
And so this is the ZBA chapter. We
eliminated those things because they
don't have to go there. Planning and
zoning is going to act on them and
that's sufficient. And then we reumbered
the rest.
And then we did uh you can see the item
D there, the motor vehicle storage
facilities. That was not previously in
the list of things for planning and
zoning to regulate. We added that
earlier.
Okay. Any any questions
on that?
Um,
so that that completes
all the changes that I wanted to make.
That doesn't mean there's not a lot more
in there that need to be changed, but
there were a couple of key points that I
wanted to get wrapped up this year and
that does it. Um,
and so, uh, I appreciate a couple of
tweaks that we made on that going
through tonight. The, uh,
so, so looking back a little bit, I did
think we were going to have more
attendees at the meeting tonight. the uh
one of the issues that we ran through,
we did not get the notification for the
public hearing put in the River East
where we normally put public hearings.
The uh there's no requirement that it be
put in the River East. That's just
traditionally what we do.
and we missed the deadline and so uh
Wayne scrambled a little bit and he got
it in the journal inquir
which meets the requirements for we
we've got to post it twice a couple of
you know within the magic windows um in
a newspaper that's got substantial
distribution in the town where the
public hearing is going to be here to
help. So, we met the requirements just
not in the method that we normally do.
And then uh it took a little bit to uh
to get the agenda posted online this
time for you know some other uh reasons
in there not due to maybe lack of
effort. I tried to get it there just
didn't show up. And so my question to
the commission is we we can technically
close out the public hearing now. we
could hold the public hearing open to
the next meeting just to make sure that
nobody uh that wanted to make a comment
doesn't have a chance to do so. I think
we you know we we held uh we got a lot
of input and that input was used to
generate the procedure that we brought
forward to agro tourism. So anybody have
any strong thoughts one way or the other
on that?
um move forward.
Okay. And certainly we are technically
correct. You know, the people that were
interested uh we had a couple of them
that that knew about it chose to show up
tonight and uh that Okay. So,
anybody opposed to closing up public
hearing tonight?
>> John, this is Katherine. I mean Jed,
this is Katherine. I'm looking at John's
picture.
>> Yes. Um,
>> excuse me. I just wanted to ask if you
could ask John whether or not he's aware
of anything that happened at the most
recent special section session of the
legislature that might impact on
anything that um was proposed
particularly with regard to some of the
changes that were proposed tonight as a
result of the public act that was passed
last year last spring.
>> Yeah. Um,
>> I haven't seen a copy of the whatever.
So, I don't
>> So, relative to the things that we
addressed this evening, I would say no.
Um, there there might be some future
changes depending on what the town opts
to do. Um there are a couple of um sort
of mixeduse and transit oriented
development
um
uh options that a town can can opt into
that would require some specific changes
um about you know as of right mixeduse
as of right certain densities of
residential development um conversions
of commercial to residential uh parking
caps on multif family, but those are I
believe almost exclusively optin
decisions by by an individual zoning
commission. Um I don't believe there is
any
uh
well no I say that well again yeah no
there there is a minor change I believe
um there is a a minimum dimension of
manufactured houses like essentially you
know um trailers uh mobile homes um or
mobile manufactured homes that that was
uh eliminated. So we we would might have
to check uh that section of our
regulations if we if we include some
sort of minimum dimension minimum
dimension I think of 22 feet that might
have to be eliminated but of the changes
that Jed went through just now including
the agurism stuff I'm confident in
saying the the house bill 802
um did not touch any of those things.
>> All right. Thank you. That was my
question.
Okay. So, at this point in time,
>> I have one other question, Patrick.
>> Um, also even though, uh, we have a
pretty solid idea of what the proposed
agurism
edit is. Um, I know we had talked about
um a like a trial period and if we don't
like it, we can get rid of it and start
over or
>> Yep. That's in there.
>> It's in there.
>> Not just for the special permit
applicant, but the regulation in
general.
>> Um,
let me read it because
>> Yeah,
>> I thought that uh
>> just want to make sure that you know if
we do run into problems.
>> Yeah. No,
>> cuz I just want to make sure they're
duly addressed and
so you're right.
Good point. says, "Agricultural
accessory uses and non-aggricultural
accessory special permit approval shall
be issued for a trial period of up to
one year to ensure coverage of the
summer season during which time the
activity can be reported to the
commission may be observed to make
initial evaluation possible.
During the trial period, the license
could be revoked try." Yeah. So, it
doesn't.
So let's say somebody
6 months from now had a special permit
approved based on the agro tourism
regulations
>> as we did.
Could we go back and undo that?
Um
>> in the so aggro tourism
>> what's that
>> this is you want to talk you wanted to
make a modification to the agurism
section
>> yeah looking at the very last paragraph
and at least it was my intention
that
we would try this procedure for a year
to see how it worked. worked if there
was anything that needed to be changed
like the maximum
uh you know the times for music or
anything like that and
at least so I guess if we wanted to
adjust within that year
this instruction and then the review
period came up for the special permit
which we say it's only good for a year.
We could kind of do that as long as is
the instruction would be changed before
the the anniversary of the special
permit approval. I think I think that
gives us there uh
but after that first year does that mean
that that it's a
so there's no review after the first
year? There's always review. We're going
back and changing. We're changing y,
>> you know, procedures every time we find
something that we want to do better.
Okay.
>> The thing that you can't do
>> is if we approve a special permit
>> on a regulation
>> and then we decide later on we don't
like it, so we change it. The guy's got
a special permit.
>> Right. It was my intention by having the
one-year review process that we would
know after a year of doing it, no, we
ought to change our regulation to do
that, we can change it and not continue
his special permit, make him get new
special permit based on the current
regulation. That's how I just double
checking.
>> Yeah, good good question.
>> Thanks.
>> Um,
okay. Any other last minute things?
John? Yes sir.
>> Uh
the last line there'll be a 100
dollars is supposed to say plural.
>> Uh I don't think so.
>> Yeah. Yeah, you're right. You're right.
One dollar.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
At 8:19 I close the public hearing when
we're when we're questioning whether or
not there should be an S dollar close
public hearing and move on.
At time
8:19 I call the regular meeting of
planning zoning commission to order.
It uh at this point I'd like to welcome
Jay to uh to our new alternate member to
uh for the commission. Have you been
sworn in yet?
>> Okay, so we're all good to go. Um thank
you for applying. Thank you for
attending. Looking forward to working
with you.
Roll call and seating of alternates.
We've got uh all the regular members are
present.
Ann Marie and Jay are uh here as
alderates tonight.
No alternates will be seated.
Any additions or changes to the agenda?
And I would like to add one item
that would be uh an old business item by
Charlie
and that is
a gravel pit motion to enter executive
session.
And uh
I've got some news on the gravel pit to
share with everybody tonight. And uh
we'll go from that.
So, that's the only addition that I have
to the agenda. Uh, any other changes?
Hearing none. I'm looking for a second
to my motion to add the
>> We'll second.
>> Okay. Ann, thank you. Um, any
discussion?
Call for a vote. Anni,
>> Patrick,
>> I
>> Scott,
>> hi.
>> Leanne,
>> I
>> and I vote I as well. So, the uh the
agenda's changed.
I am going to
text Alan Cherno wanted to attend
tonight. I think that's a
good thing. I'm going to give him a
heads up that uh
Did he get the the
link?
Um,
maybe not. They uh we'll find out real
soon.
Okay. So, he's got to ask um
public speak.
Uh I think you're the only member of the
public still holding with us. You got
anything for us at this point?
I think she's on and you are on mute,
Katherine, if you're trying to uh give
us anything there.
>> Okay, I'm going to move along.
Next up is old business. First item,
deliberation on the application uh
25-3ZC
and over planning and zoning commission
proposal to modify existing regulations.
Uh
and uh I'm not going to read through all
those things at this point. We spent a
lot of time going through it. So, uh, at
this point,
do any commission members have any
anything that they want to, uh,
discuss on any of the changes that we
were talking about tonight?
>> Did we wrap up old business or what's
>> We wrapped up the old business. This is
the old
Oh, it's under new business on my
I'm just confused. Sorry. H.
Just looking for my summary of changes
so I can
make a decent motion.
Jed, I think I I mean I have it uh the
one if you sent it to
France, I could I could bring that up.
The summary.
>> I got the right one.
>> Um does it have the uh chapter? Oh, I
got it here. Okay, I'm set.
>> Okay. So, if there are no
items for discussion,
I will make a motion to approve the
proposed zoning regulations that were
discussed at public hearing on November
18th, 2025
that changed articles 4.9.2 2 4.9.3
7 Alpha 0.9
8.1
9.1
10.7.2.1
11.1
11.2
section 16 19 and 22 as were discussed
during the public hearing.
>> I'll second that.
>> Okay. Any other discussion?
Hearing none.
>> Call for vote. Ian.
>> Hi.
>> Patrick.
>> Scott.
>> Hi.
>> Leanne.
>> I.
>> Hold the phone. I withdraw my I withdraw
my uh motion. I want to make sure we
heard two comments from Katherine
Hutchinson tonight.
She suggested that we might consider
10:00 a.m.
to noon on Sunday.
I wanted to make sure that we had a
chance to uh address that one way or
another. I don't really care. Uh, I
think she's got a a good point that, uh,
you know, Sunday should be a relatively
quiet day.
Um,
so think about that for a minute. And,
uh, you're right. He doesn't have the
Zoom link. I emailed it to him.
Well,
maybe I can
maybe I can text it.
>> Hey, Alan is Jet. Wayne just emailed you
the uh something with the Zoom link on
it.
Okay.
>> Oh, please. I'm trying to
>> Yeah, I I'm here. I'm just uh and I
don't imagine you have access to a
laptop.
>> I could text it to him.
>> I think
uh I can Yeah, we'll we'll try that. Uh
might not be great. And it's going to be
a couple of minutes before we get there.
So, um I will just keep this line open
and and uh I'll put you on speaker phone
when we get to Well, I'll put you on
speaker phone now. just say anything
until we get to your your
>> In the meantime, I'll keep trying this
link.
>> Okay. Yeah. Very good.
>> Or go to the town go to the calendar on
the town website and just click on the
link.
>> He's he's on his phone and it's just not
working with the phone. So, anyhow, he's
working on it. So anyhow, I I just
wanted to
my goal is to get the instruction on the
sheet on the screen. I don't care
whether it's Sunday 10 for no doom. I
got you know there's valid reasons for
10 valid reasons for doom. Anybody got a
strong opinion that we should change it?
>> What if we just split the difference and
make it 11:00?
Okay. Um,
>> did you hear
>> what I did not split the difference and
at 11 o'clock?
>> Um,
suggested
>> that going to mess up your motion.
>> It's not
it's in it's in the discussion phase.
And so
I will
and before I do that, again, uh
Katherine Hutchinson mentioned to all
the 490 farms, you know, one one of the
things we did is we crossed out the
requirement that it was a 490 farm. I
thought we were putting in restrictions
by making it the 490 requirement. And
again, with the accessory thing, I'm
pretty comfortable with that. I think we
got that covered.
>> Yeah.
>> But I will amend my motion to uh to
approve all of those changes
with the exception that the 10:00 a.m.
start time for Sunday will be changed to
11 a.m.
This is all by special permit and
review. So we could always do these
things individually too, couldn't we?
Yeah, they they will be there. They're
it's a special permit, so they will be.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So,
>> so Jed, if that could if I could.
>> That is good. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> So,
>> so yeah.
>> Um, so that's the change. All those
things we listed, modify the start time
on Sunday to 11:00 a.m. I'm looking for
a second to the amended motion.
>> Second. Okay, Scott, you seconded. Now
I'll call for a a vote again. We we just
uh that before I concluded that business
and
>> I,
>> Patrick,
>> I
>> Scott
>> I,
>> Leanne,
>> I
>> and I vote I as well. The motion as
amended passes five serves.
Um,
thank you. That's a lot of business
wrapped up tonight.
>> So, how how long?
>> Couple years.
>> Couple years. Several years.
>> Yeah.
>> Could be more as they go ahead.
>> Good job. Yeah. Good job. Got it over
the finish.
>> Next item. Next item up is on the planet
conservation and development.
And John, I'll turn that over to you. I
know uh there was some thought that we
were going to get together and talk
about that. that a little bit since last
year.
>> Yeah. So, um we we've basically, you
know, I'm happy to, you know, again, so
last month we sent you guys all the the
the additional draft chapters, so you
had another chance to take a look at it.
This month we actually um have been
refining things and and we actually had
a lot of comments and conversation with
some of the conservation folks um
specifically Maryanne and and Hank
Gruner and met with Hank um
uh last week uh I believe because he
wanted to go through a bunch of the
language and the maps from our latest
version of the conservation chapter. Um,
so he just got those changes over to
Janal, my colleague, um, and who who
basically has a new version. I, you
know, not not significantly changed.
It's really, um, I'll just show you
quickly. Um,
so this is from the conservation
chapter,
um, the natural resources conservation
chapter. a lot of the um maps were ad
adapted and refined
um her comments of the conservation
commission open space
um natural diversity. So there so the
the there was a lot of you know sort of
minor editing and adjustment to maps. So
um we have I believe made most of those
changes. I think Hank and Maryanne are
taking one more look at it. Um but I
think we are basically at a point now
where we have all of our um
you know draft chapters complete in
order. Um and so what I would propose is
basically for next month's meeting uh
you see the full proposed document uh
again you know uh informally informally
laid out. It's it's not sort of the
final pretty version, but all of the
text, all of the all the figures um will
be there and and the the hope would be
that you guys basically take the
opportunity in December to receive it
and schedule it for a public hearing or
lock down that date at least 65 days
hence.
>> So, a public hearing wouldn't be until
February.
>> That's correct.
>> Okay. And and I'm okay if anybody
complains that we're late. We'll just
say we were waiting for the state bill
to come through so we could make sure
EOC was consistent with that.
>> I think that's a good that's a good way
to put it.
>> Okay.
>> Uh but yeah, no, there's no there's
there's there's not going to be any
issue about uh you know, a little a
couple months tardy.
>> Yep. No, I uh good enough. Okay, that
sounds good. We we'll look at it, talk
about it at December and scheduled
public hearing at that meeting.
>> Great. Thank you.
>> Next up under hold business uh is the
motion to
go to executive session. And at this
point, uh, I make a motion that we enter
executive session for the purposes of
discussing the gravel pit with the
attendees, all commission members,
uh, the zoning agent and our attorney,
Alan Gordo.
>> So, if I, unless I'm mistaken,
>> and our planner.
>> Yeah. So, unless I'm mistaken, I believe
everyone in the room and online is
invited with the exception of Katherine
Hutchinson.
>> Yes.
>> So, I'll I'll ask Katherine if you would
you prefer that we uh go to a breakout
room and leave you there or if you have
nothing further with this commission,
you could step away. It's it's up to
you.
I don't mind stepping away temporarily,
but I do want to be
>> participating when you're out of
executive sessions.
>> Okay. So, yeah. So, actually, it might
be easier, Jed, to that I just bring
over run over to a uh a breakout room so
that we don't have to boot Katherine.
>> Yep.
>> All right. So, has the I'm sorry. Has
the motion been acted on?
>> All right. So just clarification then I
stay on and you're going to go into
um session so that I can't hear but then
you'll be back. Correct.
>> That is correct.
>> Oh thank you.
>> All right Jed, you ready to go?
>> I am.
>> Okay. Uh
>> I have to do nothing. So uh
>> no I think I think whoever's running
your your present your PowerPoint will
have to jump over.
Oh, that one.
Did the motion get voted on?
Okay, Katherine, we're coming back.
Uh
>> yeah, you've got us recording again,
John.
>> We are recording.
>> Okay, very good. So,
we've completed our executive session
and as a result of that session, I will
make a motion that the site is
stabilized and that upon payment of
a bond payment subject to the
satisfactory settlement of the town
financial requirements as agreed to by
the parties, the lawsuit will be
withdrawn.
Looking for a second. Second and thank
you. Any discussion on the motion?
>> And hearing none, I'll call for a vote.
Ann
>> I
>> Patrick
>> Scott
>> I
>> Leanne
>> and I vote I as well. Motion passes 5 0.
Thank you, Alan, if you're still there.
It's been a long time coming.
>> Looks like he's Looks like he bailed.
>> Yeah, looks like he's
>> he can't allow the legal fees. Well, we
we already did talk about that.
Um,
okay. That completes the old business.
Up for new business, election of
officers per the bylaws, article
seven.
And uh
so we we meet the requirements of the uh
the bylaws that all the regular members
are in attendance. We do have one that's
not here. We do have our new alternate
that is here, but that uh we we can go
through everybody uh everybody that's in
attendance will vote and uh the uh
nominated person has to have a majority
of the votes to uh to be elected.
So I open the floor for nominations for
chairman.
>> I nominate Patrick Dohy chairman.
I'll second that nomination.
>> You accept that nomination, Patrick?
>> Oh, uh, yeah, I accept the nomination.
Thank you.
>> Okay. Excellent. Are there any other
nominations for chairman?
>> Nominate 10.
>> I I've chosen not to continue on at this
point. Yeah.
>> All right.
>> I have enjoyed my time, but it's time
for somebody new, but thank you. Yeah.
Okay.
>> Um
So, we've got a nomination
and a second.
Uh let's see.
I'll call for a vote. Ian.
>> Hi,
>> Patrick.
>> Scott. Hi
>> Leanne.
>> Hi.
>> I vote I J.
>> Hi,
>> Ann Marie.
>> I
>> The motion passes unanimously
700.
Thank you, Patrick.
>> Welcome.
>> Congratulations, Patrick.
>> Thank you. Thank you, Pat.
>> I only hope that I can run a meeting as
smoothly as you do.
>> Well, it takes a little practice,
>> but I'll be there to help.
>> Thank you.
>> You know, I I lean heavily on Eric. Uh,
and, uh, unfortunately, you don't have
that opportunity. So, I will see, you
know, what I can do to, uh, help assist,
uh, and make that transition and
everything smooth.
>> Thank you. Um, at this point I open
nominations for vice chair. I'd like to
nominate Leanne Hutchinson for vice
chairman.
>> Second.
>> Oh, I was just going to um nominate Jed,
especially since
assist with Patrick's transition.
>> Jed Jed, how do you feel?
>> Thank you, Scott.
>> Run. So, say that again. I missed the
first little bit. the the nomination was
for you, Jed, as vice to to assist with
the transition.
>> I I just answered Scott's nomination,
not with a yes or a no, but by saying
since you did just offered to assist
Patrick with a transition,
um that maybe you should be the vice
chairman. And then I thanked Scott.
>> Okay. I'm uh
I think
first we should uh
did we get a second to the Leanne? No.
>> I I second the nomination of Leanne.
Leanne, would you accept the nomination?
>> Well, um
I'm not sure how to proceed. Um, I guess
you I can't nominate you in the middle
of another nomination.
>> Correct.
>> Um,
>> put it this way, Leanne. I would prefer
not to be the vice chair.
Um, I I had thought about maybe doing
that because I do want to help Patrick
all I can. Sometimes the old guy gets to
be more of a thorn than an assistant.
that enough, you know, a lot of but but
I think I could do that even
with somebody else being the vice chair.
So, um
I I would be happy to not be the vice
chair.
I wouldn't be too sad to be the vice
chair, but uh you know, I think it's
it's just time for some new folks to uh
get in there. I've been there a long
time. When I took it, I said it was
going to be a short time. Um,
all things are relative.
>> Leanne's been doing this for 30 years
commission.
>> Yep. She's she's she's very she's very
well qualified. Yep. She probably just
doesn't want to be pleaded up to the
chairman, but
we can cross that bridge. I I protected
Ann from having to do that for the last
couple of years. And so, uh, we'll go
there. But anyhow, um, so what do you
say, Leanne? You we you accept the
nomination?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you, Leanne.
>> Welcome. Thank you.
>> And would you be disappointed if you
weren't renominated?
>> No.
>> Okay. I figured that was I figured that
would be it. Yes. So, uh,
>> all that being said, I'll call for a
vote. Han.
>> Hi,
>> Patrick.
>> Scott. I
>> Leanne
>> I
>> I vote I as well. Jay
>> Hi,
>> Ann Marie.
>> Hi.
>> Congratulations, Leanne. Motion passes
700. You are now our vice chair. Yay.
Patrick, I'd be happy to continue on
through the meeting tonight and have you
take over the December one,
>> please.
>> Okay. Not ready.
>> Very good. Moving on to the 2026 meeting
date.
>> Take a week to the next meeting.
>> I sent I sent out a list uh to probably
everybody, but Jay,
I don't know if anybody had a chance to
take a look at it. Every month next
year, the meetings, you know, would be
the third Tuesday of the month. There
were no holidays or anything that I saw
that would interfere with us having
the meeting as scheduled.
One one thing that uh
I'll try to check
because it's been requested of me that I
do.
Yeah. I can't find.
So, attorney France
always likes us to make sure we're not
beating on the uh Jewish holidays, and I
don't think we are.
Um,
and as appropriate. So, anyhow,
um,
given all that, I guess March 17th is
St. Patrick's Day.
I did figure that that was probably a
showstopper to cancel the meeting on. So
that was the only thing that came close
to uh being the conflict that I saw
looking out there.
>> And also and also note 12 years of
Catholic school tells me that that's
pretty much not a Jewish holiday.
>> Okay. Yeah,
probably not a Catholic holiday either.
>> Is raised in a Jewish household. I can
confirm and second that is not a Jewish
holiday.
>> The uh So anyhow, um does anybody need
me to read through the dates so you can
look at your calendars or you you saw
the date so you know how it goes and uh
and it can pretty much work
hearing none. I make Go ahead.
>> Yeah, I said looks good.
>> Okay. Yep. I'll make a motion to approve
the meeting scheduled for the third
Tuesday of the month for the year 2026.
Second
>> and seconds. Thank you. Any discussion
hearing? None. I'll call for a vote.
And
>> I
>> Patrick
>> Hi.
>> Scott.
>> Leanne.
>> I
>> I vote I as well. Alder don't get to
vote anymore. So the motion passes 500.
>> Just looked up on Wikipedia St. Patrick
Bush Jewish.
Sure.
Um
that completes the new business. Moving
on to correspondence
any correspondence.
Uh
I think I'll just say no. Okay.
I did have one interesting email that
came in
yesterday
and it was from the reporter of the
River East. I hope you are doing well.
I reaching out because I'm working on a
piece about House Bill 802 and how it
may affect local planning zoning
practices in our area. I was hoping to
get your perspective on a few questions.
My deadline for this piece is 8 a.m.
Wednesday. So, a response before then
would be greatly appreciated.
How do you think House Bill 802 will
affect the town's ability to control
local zoning decisions? And what
concerns, if any, may you have about the
state's increased
rural and housing plan?
I uh I wrote back
while I haven't read the bill yet. It is
very long. I have looked at the analysis
done by the office of legislative
research pertaining to the bill. I also
wanted to support your deadline. So here
goes. Of course, the bill will affect
the town's ability to control local
local zoning decisions. That's the point
of the bill.
There is too much difference between
small rural towns and big cities for a
one-sizefits-all zoning standard, and I
am concerned about that.
Next question. What challenge do you
anticipate in meeting the bill's new
housing planning requirements such as
identifying developable land, updating
zoning regulations, or creating
municipal housing growth place?
That's the new plan. It's going to be
the growth plan at the affordable
housing plan.
One challenge is that the new housing
plan requirements will require more
assistance from a town planner. This
costs money and I hope that the funding
will be available for towns to work on
affordable housing through various
grants. We are currently finishing up
Andover's new plan of conservation
development, which is the town's
strategic 10-year plan, and have
identified several regulation changes to
support more affordable housing. These
changes will make housing more
affordable, but at the end of the day,
developers are not standing in line to
develop housing in Andover.
So question number three, where do you
see the biggest opportunities or risk
for the down if additional housing
density or new affordable units are
introduced under the bill? Particular in
areas that may qualify as priority
development zones that would be like the
transportation
zones there. Andover faces several
challenges with affordable housing such
as lack of public water and sewers and
the lack of convenient transportation to
and from Andover. I know this isn't
much, but I consider this way too
complicated an issue to respond to
before the ink is dry on a regulation
and in a day. Sorry I couldn't be of
more help.
So that's that's the correspondence I
had. That's how I answered the mail. Um
and we'll see how it comes out this
Friday
when the story ends. So that's that's my
interesting commission discussion
correspondence.
>> That's a good reply. Yeah, very nice.
>> Um,
any commission discussion?
>> I wanted to know how we were doing with
formulating that plan
for an explanation to the affordable
housing for the selectment
>> that I he was going to be involved with
that.
>> Yeah, he was. and and we had said, you
know, in the in the minutes from last
month that I reviewed, John and I were
going to get together and with Eric
leaving and trying to wrap up the gravel
bit and all these other regulations
>> that I wanted to put to bed, John and I
did not get around to working on that.
>> We'll try discussing that again here
soon.
>> Yep. Sound good, John?
>> Yeah, sure. I and what what I would note
is that um our affordable housing plan
requirement
um the five-year plan that I think the
the Andover adopted theirs in what in
2021 or so. Um
>> yeah,
>> so that that it would in theory be due
in 2026. That is now off the table. The
affordable housing plan is now replaced
by the housing growth plan which is uh
primarily directed by the region. So
we're going to be
We could do our own plan, but it's more
likely that we will uh be participating
in the regional plan undertaken by Crag.
And that one will be due not until I
believe June of 2028.
Um so we have a couple of years to work
on that. And there's several steps that
are going to happen along the way. The
state is going to undergo a a process of
determining um overall state housing
needs. Then we'll allocate that housing
need by region and give the COGS the big
number say you know 50,000 for the
capital region for the 35 towns in the
capital region and then the all of the
towns in COG will be negotiating and
discussing their um own analysis that
will then filter down to the towns and
so we would be part of the process at
Crog that will essentially assign a
number to Andover that not only not only
a number like you know 200 but you know
the types uh of you know some some
apartments some senior housing some
assisted there'll be a breakdown um
and there will be an appeal an appeal
process for that if we believe that you
know the collective wisdom of Krag gave
Andover too many units to target um
there is an appeal process there um and
the the state office of GIS is going to
have to come up with uh a system of
analysis for determining
extent of developable area. Um, and so
there's all of these all of these
discussions and processes and and
rubrics that have to be put in place
between now and 2028 when the first of
these housing growth plans has to be in
place. So, this will be evolving over
the next couple of years. Um, and again,
it it the bill removed most of the what
we would call the sticks, you know, the
or else um elements. uh it's very
heavily weighted on incentives and
really the it seems like the only
downside for a municipality if you if we
choose not to be a real active
participant is we might lose the ability
to put in place a an affordable housing
moratorum
but
that's such a remote possibility for the
town anyway that it's it's not much of a
not much of a stick. So, um, anyway,
nothing's going to happen fast and and
this will be rolling out over a couple
of years and and I would strongly
recommend that the town stay extremely
active and extremely engaged with the
discussions at the Crag level, at the
regional level.
So, that's that's my brief summary of
that.
>> And do you normally attend those Crag
games? Well, this would be I I attend
some um but this would be this is going
to have to be a whole new
committee of some type. They're they're
really going to have to establish kind
of a housing working group um soon.
>> Going to have to
>> Yes. Yes. all all of the COGS will
because they're and because the COGS are
per per this bill getting um pretty
significant money something like
$200,000 a year per COG to bring in um
basically housing planning help uh that
I think ideally as staff members I think
there is some provision for technical
services for outsiders but but the state
clearly wants the COGS to take the lead
on this and they want to do this with
in-house staff if they
What defines our region?
>> Um state statute. Uh it's the the the
state like years ago um after the
dissolution of county government, there
were 15 councils of government or
regional planning agencies. Um Crag was
29 towns, but back about 15 years ago,
they reorganized and went from 15 to
nine COGS. And Crag got bigger. Um, so
Andover and Andover and Colombia are
pretty much the the outer outer
southeast fringes of the Capitol region.
Um,
>> and who?
>> Andover and Andover and Colombia are are
sort of the the lower southeast section
of Prague. Um, but yeah, that that was
assigned that was assigned by active
state congress.
>> Okay. And so by being Colombia's town
planner and town planner that uh
Yes, they they have close conversations.
>> We're good to go. Okay. Excellent. And I
do think you know the the path that we
kind of charted out and the changes that
we've got in the POC about changing our
zoning rigs,
you know, all that's still good. You
know, I think
>> it is. Oh, yes, it is. And I I also note
that that Oh, sorry, Jed. Go ahead. One
of the things that I was hoping to get
more into with, you know, the River East
questions was,
you know, I think I feel good that
Andover's, you know, working on on
trying to head in the right direction.
Um, but, you know, we're not going to
have all the answers. You know, we're
not the answers to every affordable
housing problem. We'll do what we can,
but there's a lot we can't do. And and
hopefully that'll be good enough.
>> Yeah. And I and I also note that there's
no reason that you know again we're
we're establishing some affordable
housing goals and actions in our plan of
conservation development those actions
we will if we assuming we progressively
and proactively make those changes to
our zoning we will get credit for that.
So, so actions taken between now and the
point in which our our housing growth
plan is adopted th that that progress
counts like it, you know, it's not we we
don't have to put ourselves in suspended
animation for two and a half years. We
can we can make progress and and we will
get credit for that progress in in the
next housing growth plan.
Now, I thought I saw somewhere when it
talked about the housing growth plan
that if we didn't have a plan or working
on a plan that uh your funding could be
impacted.
>> We we Yeah, I think priority funding
will go to those municipalities that
have have a plan in place and have done
more.
>> Um and there's a couple of a couple of
transit things that we could opt into.
>> Um and so towns that do that will get
prioritized. I think they were careful
to to not say funding is cut off, but
but those communities will will, you
know, not receive the same, you know,
bonus points.
>> But I do think that with the emphasis,
and there's so much money out there that
the state's trying to throw at uh at
housing,
that we should be able to get plenty of
uh grant money to, you know, help fund
you so that you can help us work on all
those good things. Well, that would be
nice. Um I It seems like the bill is
directing
>> those grants, John.
>> What's that?
>> You know who's going to go look for
those grants?
>> Yeah, absolutely. Thank you.
>> Okay. Um
any other commission discussion?
Moving down to administrative reports,
Wayne?
>> Um just a couple things. Uh
me and Joe went out and visited a um
driveway that uh was going to be paved
on Lake Road. Um it's a shared driveway
between two residences.
Turns out that it's too late in the year
for them to do the paving, so they're
postponing paving till next spring. But
we did uh talk the uh
owner and the paving company into
uh doing a uh bio retention area at the
bottom of the driveway. So
So this is we're looking for a plan.
This is a a major success where the
nutrient allocation worksheet came into
play for a guy doing a driveway. you
know, we we before we never had the
opportunity for Wayne to even be uh in
the loop on when driveways were getting
paid. So, uh I I consider that, you
know, pretty big step in a good
direction there.
>> With with your permission though, I
would like to make contact with the
author of that spreadsheet,
Dr. Courtman.
>> Um
>> Okay. Yeah. John Valent.
>> Well, John Valente got it. I mean, it I
have the paper that Dr. Cortman wrote
for Colombia.
>> Yeah.
>> Kid, he created that spreadsheet for
Colombia and over
>> kind of
>> I'll let you discuss that with a relief.
>> Okay.
>> Anyway,
>> but I think
>> I I would like to make contact with Dr.
department to to maybe talk over that
that worksheet with them and and
while it's a requirement, it proved to
be very difficult.
>> Right.
Very difficult.
>> Okay.
>> So,
>> anything else, Wayne?
uh that uh me and Joe kind of we we kind
of signed off on a draft site plan for
280 Route 6 which is uh in between Wales
Road and Shotty Mill. Um so we we expect
a site application for that shortly
and
there's a potential application going
going to be coming down the road. um or
on Lakeside where a uh a resident is uh
proposing to combine two lots, demolish
a house and expand an exist an existing
residence,
but that that needs a variance. So, if
the variance doesn't go through, then
nothing happens.
>> That's scheduled for tomorrow night.
Okay,
>> that's the end of my report.
Inland wetlands uh continues to be
pretty slow over there. We didn't have a
meeting last month. Uh I guess that
exceeded the uh
reduction in meeting length from the
4minute meeting we held the month
before.
>> So those guys know how to do meetings
better than we do. I sorry that we
couldn't get it done in four minutes
tonight.
We did wrap up some stuff, but that's so
no new news there. Turn it over to you,
John.
>> Um, just one real quick note. I don't
know if people had heard uh Eric um
managed to depart Andover uh on a high
note. Um I think his second last day of
work, we received notification that the
town is receiving a grant through
Congressman Courtney's office um of a
couple hundred thousand, two or three
hundred,000. Eric and I worked on this
grant um that would basically help uh
provide a backup uh power generator for
the whole civic campus. Um so for the
the fire station, the town hall and the
new senior and community center will
will get a new um backup generator,
emergency generator so that the town
campus can kind of be a um you know
emergency management center and a and a
and a a shelter. Um, so that's uh good
news and and congratulations to to Eric
uh and thanks thanks to him for that
work.
>> So that you
>> Yeah. Nice.
>> Yeah. All three all three buildings will
be wired together on the same backup
system.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so that's that's good news and that's
that's all I've got.
>> So uh
next up is public speak.
Katherine,
>> John, I'm um thank you very much for all
your input on keeping us up to date. And
Jed, you've been great ever since uh I
started participating or at least
listening to
the meetings since I believe it's been
about 19 um I should say 2019 2020. And
thank you for your patience. Um, I'm
sure I tried it on more than one
occasion and you've been great. And
thanks to the commission members who um
also have been great as far as
being receptive to listen to what I had
to say and I appreciate it.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you for your participation. We uh
actually uh I do appreciate the the
feedback we get from the people of the
town when they show up. I wish more
people did. and uh but uh
you're there for us, Catherine. I
appreciate it. Thank you for coming.
>> Thank you.
>> Um
next up is approval of the minutes
from October 21st.
And I'll make a motion to approve the
Planning and Zoning Commission
regular minutes from Tuesday, October
21st, 2025.
Second.
>> Thank you.
>> Did you want discussion or
>> No, we're going to discuss now. Yeah.
>> I've never figured out the best way to
do that. Uh but hopefully there's
Anybody have any
comments on the minutes?
I had none
hearing. No discussion. Call for vote.
And
>> I
>> Patrick
>> I.
>> Scott.
>> Hi.
>> Leanne.
>> I
>> can I as well. The motion
passes. 5 0.
Um
I guess going back to the the discussion
just a little bit. So I do plan to
continue my time on the board you know
at least the next two years till the
term is up and I would be happy to
continue to be the inland wetlands water
course rep. Um, when I first started
out, there were some advantages to me
going over to attend that meeting
because I could start learning before
the the thing showed up here, but uh
it's kind of quiet over there right now.
So, I'm happy to continue that on as
long as uh as you so choose.
Thank you. Next regularly scheduled
meeting December 16th, 2025 to be held
is a hybrid meeting.
Um any last
minute comments?
>> We want to thank you for your your time
as
>> Yes.
>> chairperson.
>> I was going to say it is, you know, in
some aspects a reluctance that that I
give it up. It's been fun driving a bus.
>> Um but uh you when I started out I had
no grandkids. Now I got five. They take
a fair amount of time and uh it gets you
as you get older it gets harder to do a
lot of stuff. So it was it was time to
go. But I've enjoyed my time on the
commission with that.
>> Grandkids are the best, aren't they?
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty good. That's
all. So, uh, I I appreciate the
opportunity helped out in the town and
and, uh, hope to be able to continue do
that, but I appreciate fact somebody
else driving the bus for a little while.
So, thank you, Patrick.
>> Thank you, Jed.
>> Jed, this is Katherine. Could I add Oh,
go ahead, Liam.
You're
>> I was just I was just thanking Jed also.
Okay, Catherine, go ahead. I just wanted
to say and this is for everyone on the
commission and that is I don't think
that the in general it's understood how
much time and how much effort everybody
that serves on planning and zoning puts
in and including the alternates who
faithfully
tune in in case they're needed every
every month and very often stay on for
the meeting. So, they keep posting and
again um I have nothing but respect for
all of you and thank you for your
service because as I started out by
saying I don't think anybody has any
idea the time and a commitment that you
all put in. Thank you.
>> Well, I'm trying to keep that a secret
for a little while longer.
Yeah.
But anyhow,
hope everybody has a great Thanksgiving
holiday coming up next week and I make a
motion to adjurnn.
>> Second that.
>> Thank you, Ann. All in favor say I.
>> I.
>> Motion carries. Five zero zero.